yeah now the latest bit of car Tech is
the double clutch gearbox it's basically
the slickest and neatest way of changing
gear with paddles on the steering wheel
that's right but what we wanted to know
is is it actually any better than a man
with a conventional stick so it's over
to Jason on the handling circuit the
Cayman is one of the most perfectly
balanced and dicta blue tactile cars in
the world every control from the
steering to the gear change office
tingling feedback the only better way to
feel the road where we do knock your
face on it
so surely swapping this stick for some
buttons from a child's Gameboy won't
make it better and faster it'll make it
artificial and slow first some
reacquaintance
with a manual car
immanuel Cayman costs 36 grand which
you'll get a 2.9 liter children's 65
brake horsepower engine and a mortar 62
times a five-point eight seconds now
changing gear it's part of the pleasure
of driving the cars you know one of the
ways you interact with it
you can make a difference to the balance
of wheel that's a nice thing to do this
is a proper driver's car
it's so beautiful way to balance it's
got 12 degrees I defy anyone not I love
these cars but we've got to find out
what's the best so time for a quick
start the clock buildup on the brakes
and composure this
the gate changed beautifully smooth
silky
with me swapping comes manually the
caelian finishes in forty two point
seven seconds time to check out this
newfangled PDK gearbox
the Porsche pvk what it basically is
this double clutch gearbox the next gear
in lolly it's all in three selected so
if you're in second gear and you're
looking for third
he's only engaged and the clutch just
clicks across the PDK gearbox adds
nearly 2 grams to the Caymans price as
he kilograms to its weight but Porsche
claim it's a tenth of a second quicker
than 62 than the manual the downside is
you're not really in control you know
the gearbox will only go down when it
wants to and portion that wisdom have
decided to not have flappy paddles which
you know I know how to work pull the
right hand to go up you pull the left
hand to go down well they've done is
they put buttons on the steering wheel I
think got ran the wrong way so you
actually push to go up again and you
pull to go down again well I keep making
their mistakes and it's a bit
infuriating of course but kelsa presets
around the wrong way as well come on
let's get on the drive in it but is it
actually faster on the track let's
settle this with a quick one
Oh
at the first checkpoint the PDK is
trading volumes
the second checkpoint
let me get back in the manual the BBK
finishes in a time of forty three point
two seconds that's half a second slower
than the manual the PD claim may be
quicker on paper but on our test track
the good old-fashioned manual won the
day yes a triumph for the humans the
robots haven't taken over quite yet
yes his humans won a machine zero I
guess what we are saying here is if you
are as consistent as Jason then by a
manual but if your left leg has fallen
off then there's a version that's nearly
as fast